Taylor CS Alumni Questionnaire 

Please answer all short response questions and at least 4 long response questions. Thank you for your time!

Name: Zach Alford

Graduation Year: 2016

Major: Computer Science with a minor in mathematics.

Where are you currently living? Douglasville, Georgia

What are you currently doing professionally? Middle school math teacher.

Describe your career since graduating from Taylor (achievements, awards, companies worked at, positions held, include links if applicable) I became a Woodrow Wilson Teaching Fellow in May of 2018 (https://woodrow.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/06/GA-TF-2018-Release-FINAL.pdf). In June of 2019, I completed my Masters of Arts in Teaching at Mercer University, including coursework, a student-teaching experience, and Georgia teacher certification. In July of 2019 I will begin my first year as a full-time math teacher at Chapel Hill Middle School, located in a diverse suburb west of Atlanta. Teaching is a challenging but rewarding profession! I enjoy watching young minds grow and become confident with mathematics; the growth will serve them in many stages of life.

What do you like to do in your free time? Tennis, running, board games, video games, eating out with friends and colleagues, reading fiction, watching movies and tv shows, and sleeping.

How did studying at Taylor prepare you for life? Taylor’s computer science and mathematics courses taught me attention for accuracy, cognitive persistence, how to work in groups, and valuable problem-solving skills. Taylor’s liberal arts emphasis taught me important ways on how to express myself in conversation and in writing. Finally, Taylor’s discipleship experiences and religion courses allowed me to taste and see God’s grace and justice, the pleasure of walking with Him daily, and to hope in something bigger than myself. (One final detail: I’m still using the budgeting tool from the Computer Science Capstone course.)

What is the most valuable thing you learned at Taylor? Phil Vischer of VeggieTales was the homecoming chapel speaker in my sophomore year - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L4c8kiI4V6U&t=445s. I still remember his story of waiting on God when life got hard. In this chapel and in other Taylor experiences, I learned how happiness is God's invention and that by seeking Him I find happiness along the way (Psalm 16:11, Hebrews 11:6). Basically, I finally learned how to be happy.

Cool opportunities you got while at Taylor? Living on the 3rd floor of Samuel Morris Hall (i.e. “The Brotherhood”). Silent Night and other social events. Some great chapel speakers. Spring Break Missions Trip to Shepherd Community Center in Indianapolis; this led to a summer internship at Shepherd and my first classroom teaching experience. Great interactions with fellow students and Taylor professors. Finally, one of my favorite experiences was volunteering at the Red Barn.
