Current Student Questionnaire 

Please answer all short response questions and at least 4 long response questions.

Name: Imani Muya

Where are you from? Seattle/Tanzania

Year (as of 2019-2020): Senior

Major(s): Computer Science: Digital Media; Film and Media Production

Why did you choose to study this? These are two fields that challenge me in different ways and push me to grow and stretch myself.

Hobby, extracurricular, or fun fact: Check out the swing dance club!

What career path interests you most right now? Web development 
What’s the most valuable lesson you’ve learned in college so far? The most valuable thing I learned was, know when to stop. There will be projects that you know that you could have done better on if you had more time, but sometimes there isn't time available to you, especially if you have other classes or other things going on. Also, take time and have fun, some people need to hear this... and some people need to study more and have less fun. You know who you are and what you need.

What Computer Science knowledge, experience, or classes did you come in with when you started studying CS here? Before coming to Taylor I had taken one computer science course in 11th grade and I loved it, but that was all the experience that I had. That may have been the best class I took in high-school because I still draw from things I learned there.

What piece of advice or words of encouragement would you give to an incoming CS student? GET HELP! But seriously, you are there to learn, which means that there is no shame in not knowing all of the answers. You have teachers, and TAs, and pretty much anyone who has taken the class or is in the class currently to help you out. Help them, help others, and that way you build a community and pretty soon Euler feels a little bit like home :p 

What’s the hardest lesson in CS you’ve learned? Every student and teacher is going to tell you this but don’t start a project the night before it is due. There are some classes where you can get by doing that no sweat but for the ones where you can’t, you find out pretty quickly. Starting the night before, then having things take longer than expected, getting stuck, getting help, and then submitting it 30 seconds before it is due is not the kind of high you want to get hooked on. Sometimes, despite your best efforts, you are still coming down to the wire on the assignment, it still feels a lot better when you have time to let the project sit in your brain.
